Inventory Management System User Manual

Ver: 1.0

Platforms: Windows(.exe), MacOS(.app), and Linux(Binary)

database used: SQLite

1. Introduction:
	This system is a lightweight, locally-run application used for small to medium sized companies to maintain accurate stock levels. Requires no internet connection and stores all data on the local system.

2. System Requirements:
	Windows: Windows 10 or later, 64-bit
	MacOS: macOS 12 or later.
	Linux: Ubuntu 20.04 or later

3. Install and setup:
	Follow instructions in Download instructions pdf in main.
	
	To run: 
		Windows: Double-Click the .exe
		MacOS: double click or in terminal type ./InventoryManager
		Linux: in terminal run chmod +x InventoryManager then ./InventoryManager

4. upon first launch the application will automatically create a data/ folder and inventory.db file

5. Overview of Application
	Search bar, New Item button, table view, as well as Receive/Issue/Refresh buttons

6. Using the system:
	6.1: Adding New item;
		Click New Item, Enter a name, SKU number, Item price, Minimum Quantity, and a Barcode Id if you have one, then save. *Note: Price, Quantity, and minimum need to be numbers.*
	6.2: Searching;
		Type desired Name or SKU and press enter, program will return any matching items.
	6.3: Receiving items;
		Select the desired item, click receive, enter a quantity, and any notes needed, then hit enter or commit.
	6.4: Issuing;
		Select the desired item, click issue, enter quantity to be issued, add any notes or comments, then hit enter or commit. *note: cannot over issue or go into negative stock.* 
	6.5: Editing items;
		Will be implemented in future iterations.
	6.6: Deleting items; 
		Will be implemented in future iterations.

7. Low Stock indications:
	Will be light red when below indicated minimum stock.

8. Export to CSV:
	Click File, Export to CSV.

9. Database Location & Backup:
	Database: data/inventory.db
	Backup: Click file backup database, back up will be created in same location as the application

10. Troubleshooting: 
	MacOS: block run due to unknown publisher, Select run anyway.
	Insufficient Stock: User is trying to over issue. Either issue less or receive more.
	Locked Database: User has more than one instance of the application running.
	Missing data error when trying to run: data folder may have been moved or deleted. 

11. Known limitations:
	Single-user only, No barcode scanner capabilities, MacOS requires permissions.

12. Contact/Support.
	Contact through GitHub and one of the developers will reach out. Please include as much information as possible.